---
layout: post
title: Moving blogs
---

When I was at University I wrote a little blog site in PHP with posts
stored in a database, a basic login system and some nice Javascript on
the front end. This was a good learning exercise and fairly
sophisticated behind the scenes.

However, things move on and it was time to ditch this site and start
again. I tried playing with Blogspot, Google Sites and Wordpress but
didn't find much that fitted my requirements. I found Wordpress
intimidatingly bloated and hard to use, while the other other options
were too limiting and wouldn't allow much in the way of custom
content.

Eventually I came across the [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/)
system which powers the [GitHub.io](https://pages.github.com/)
websites. It is static website generator with pages/posts stored as
text files in Markdown format. Its a pretty lightweight system and
doesn't try to over-manage the user and allows for lots of
customisation of content.

After finding a [decent theme](http://lanyon.getpoole.com/) on
internet, I copied over the relevant
content from my old blog and some other files that I wanted to keep.
The whole process didn't take very long, probably because I didn't
have to worry about style issues and could just focus on a small
amount of content.

Of course Jekyll doesn't allow login, searching and other
functionality which my old site had. But they were just learning
exercises for me and could be achieved in other ways. I now have a
rather clean, modern looking, blog which will happily serve my
purposes for quite some time.

One thing is that I find the Jekyll documentation a bit confusing,
like it is trying to give me far too much information at once. I tend
to refer to other sites and blogs when I get stuck, although the theme
for this blog handles most problems for me automatically.
