---
layout: post
title: Spotify v. Rdio
---

<div>
  <div class="float:left;">
    ![Spotify Logo](public/images/spotify-logo.png "Spotify Logo")
  </div>
  <div class="float:left;">
    ![Rdio Logo](public/images/rdio-logo.png "Rdio Logo")
  </div>
  <div style="clear:both;"></div>
</div>

![Rdio Logo](public/images/rdio-logo.png "Rdio Logo")

Like most people these days, I use a music streaming service to listen to
everything. This began with Spotify which came out whilst I was at University,
and the free version was good as I didn't mind the adverts. However, this was
changed so that songs could be played a limited number of times each month and
the amount of adverts were increased.  I look my business over to Rdio,
starting with their free service and then moving to a full subscription once I
started work. I've been with Rdio for a number of years now, but Spotify ran a
promotion in January 2015 where three months of premium subscription could be
purchased for 99p. Since some of my favourite artists were publishing playlists
on Spotify at the time, I decided to give Spotify another chance. This article
is my comparison between the services and primarily to help me decide whether to
pay the full price for Spotify or not. This review does not cover the mobile
clients are I do not use them often.

## Price

Both services have identical pricing structures at free with adverts, or Â£9.99
per month for all platforms. However, Rdio do offer a 50% discount for web-only
usage (presumable not mobile) which could be useful to some.

## Music Choice

For the most part the music choice is identical but Spotify does have slightly
more songs, especially niche ones, and tends to get new songs marginally faster
than Rdio.

## Clients

Rdio can be used through a modern web-browser or desktop client (which is just a
prism to access the web application through). The web application is very
reliable and perfect for work as no software installs are required. Also the
technology feels very cutting edge using HTML5 and JavaScript all over --
although this could be a pain for IE6 and IE7 users.. The interface is
minimalist, with a white and blue colour scheme and very little visual
inference, and feel its slightly more responsive than Spotify.

Spotify has two clients: a regular desktop application or web-application. The
web application (play.spotify.com) is a lot less reliable than Rdio's. I've had
several problems where the player would crash or fail to play subsequent song.
The desktop application is good, where it can be installed, and is quite
reliable. However, I feel the interface is clogged up with "Social" and "App"
features which get in the way of me finding music to listen to. I've hardly used
these features and feel they could be tucked away to keep the interface clean.

However, the Spotify play queue is a lot easier to manage than Rdio's and more
suited to parties where multiple people want to add tracks to be played. Rdio
works best when you want to play a whole album or play list. But smart speakers,
like the Sonos System, could make that all redundant as the speaker would manage
the play list and draw music in from different sources anyway.

Spotify seem to have shunned the excellent Chromecast system though. This is a
real shame as that system is excellent and is expanding to speakers aswell as
TV. Rdio implements the system as soon as it became available and did a great
job.

## Music discovery

Spotify has more emphasis on social interaction and many DJs or artists produce
play lists which you can subscribe to, providing a great source of new music.
There are ways to browse music in the application, such as by genre or mood, and
ways to find the most popular songs.

Rdio is much less popular and its harder to find quality play lists, although it
is possible to transfer them between the platforms fairly easily. There are less
music discovery options but the personal radio system is very good. This will
play music based on your favourites and listening history, and can be configured
depending on how adventurous you feel. Spotify does have a radio station feature
aswell but its not as configurable as Rdio's.

## App Support

Both systems offer great app support with fully featured APIs for developers to
play with. Spotify probably has more Applications but the ones for Rdio are
often browser based and easier to access. However, I don't use them much for
either system except to import play lists.

## Conclusions

Its very hard to choose between these systems. Music has become a utility, just
like water or gas, and we don't think too much about consuming it. Perhaps
there's another discussion to be had about the value of art in this world...

Rdio's interface is much better and has better interaction with external system,
but Spotify has better play lists and music selection. But a lack of Chromecast
support and a dodgy HTML5/Web player is a pain. I also appreciate Rdio being the
underdog, their choice of technologies, and user interface design.

Therefore I think Rdio just about wins this battle.

But its very close. If Spotify overhauled their design, dropped the price or
fixed their web player and supported Chromecast then they would get it. The
problem is that these services are just a soulless utility now.

